it's not quite disintegrating but
there's little doubt the royal family is
fraying at the edges bad enough is
Prince Andrew being entangled in an
ongoing sex scandal involving young
women but even more gobsmacking is
Prince Harry and Megan markle's daring
many say disrespectful escape from the
firm the shame of it is the Duke and
Duchess of Sussex had promised so much
in the way of positive PR for the Royals
sticking to the fairy tale script they'd
fallen in love married in a castle and
produced a beautiful boy
but somehow it's now all gone horribly
askew it's not enough to just survive
something it was supposed to be a
real-life royal fairy tale Britain's own
Prince Charming I'm just wild about
Harry sweeping an American actress off
her face aromantic he got on with me
but in the end it took just 599 days
from walking down the aisle and to have
them to hold till death us do part
pledging a life of service to bolt it
for the exit door and leaving the royal
family in crisis it brings me great
sadness that it has come to this so is
this a Markel driven debacle or a Megan
and Harry the victims one thing's for
sure there is nothing Regan about the
whole saga all I can think is she'd
better be in love if she's been faking
it all this time oh boy what misery how
many orgasms will it take Fellman how
many fake groans we'll get through this
[Music]
because it's pathetic he says I can say
it use that term he's pussy-whipped I
say quick that's the term they use it's
not like the couple's didn't know what
they were signing up for when they
became the Duke and Duchess of Sussex
a life forever in the public eye offset
by living off the public purse
however it turns out that's not what
Harry and Megan want these days
essentially they ask the Queen to have
their cake and eat it too longing for a
life out of the spotlight but only
declaring that after they've been gifted
the newly renovated Frogmore cottage and
having taxpayers foot the bill for their
extravagant 61 million dollar wedding
the marriage was terrible too because it
was full of showbiz personalities as if
Megan lived in a completely artificial
world feminist author and longtime royal
critic Germaine Greer says there were
warning signs from the outset if they're
the people that they hold dear then
that's the kind of life perhaps they
hold dear as well the high life the
celebrity life Oprah hmm.well George
Clooney
Ammar you name it they were there and
you had the distinct feeling that they
didn't know who the bride and groom
it was showbiz wasn't it and the whole
point about showbiz it's not real and it
won't sustain you in fact Jermaine saw
doom before just about anyone I think
the pressure to escape from the firm is
crushing this was the eerily accurate
prediction she gave to 60 minutes before
the nuptials even took place
I think she'll bolt I hope in a way that
she'll Bowl but maybe she'll take Harry
with her she wasn't an outsider in every
sense here but that's possibly why Harry
fell for her he was looking for a way
out it's impossible to discuss the
reasons for Meg's 'it without mentioning
the r-word racism mother as a woman of
color and as your sister way to the
english shrink when it comes to races hi
hi hi and they will never let you forget
that you're a foreigner not for a minute
[Music]
the Royal Family's got to be the whitest
the whitest of white his handle in her
you might remember Trisha Goddard from
play scram today these people take but
for decades now she's been a TV star in
the UK and knows all too well about
racist undercurrents that still run
strong you wouldn't encounter racism in
the street so much around here but when
you get in that online world were people
and on enmity Oh vile vile absolutely
vile
a lot of people don't see it as racism
but there's a language there's a
narrative that's been here long before
Megan Markel which bubbled to the
surface and there are ways of saying
things you know about them you know
exotic or a lot of it is is also very
misogynistic oh she's got hairy wrapped
around her finger whose idea do you
think it was to jump and run here do you
think it's more hairy or more Megan I
think a lot of the push would have come
from Harry
in fact I I wonder if he didn't choose a
bride from another country because it
gave him an out because it gave him some
security and do you think to a certain
extent that Megan isn't an easy target
for the British community because it's
almost too hard to accept that Harry
doesn't like it here well that too and
how can he possibly desert us it must be
her and that's the misogyny bit as well
you know he says I can say it use that
term he's pussy-whipped I say quick
that's the term they use I think it's
not just racism I think it's racism I
think in Santa phobia
I think it's misogyny she's a strong
woman and there is a lack of justice and
there's an inequality and someone needs
to say something and why not me I think
it's very unfair to say that criticism
is actually a racism because of course
it is not angela Levin is Prince Harry's
official biographer and he's adamant
Megan is not the victim I think a lot of
the criticism has come about because she
sort of lectures the public on how they
shall behave but not do it herself
the private jets after yes talking about
global warming and yes we shouldn't fly
but she can go off on private jets to
Elton John and see the Clooney's and all
that sort of thing
it's this woke new-age mindset that
appears to have lost the Duke and
Duchess a lot of fans Harry's always
been a rebel at heart and everyone loved
it when that shone through as the party
Prince really who doesn't like a wild
night in Vegas but Angela believes the
latest manifestation of his rebellious
nough Saul so offers us an escape is the
truest one yet Harry simply longing for
a life less royal if we go back to Harry
pre Megan what kind of woman do you
think Harry was looking for when he when
he was looking for love yeah I think he
liked a spiky woman someone with
strength and opinions of their own is
that what he got in the end do you think
maybe he's got someone who's a bit too
spiky really I don't think she finds it
very easy to abend a bit and come to a
compromise maybe this is an Australian
term but I hope you know what I mean who
do you think wears the pants Harry or
Megan in the UK we say who wears the
trousers so it's just the same really
I'm sure it's Megan and as she said
before the wedding you know what Megan
wants Megan gets and he's very very keen
on making her happy I think to the
detriment of himself coming up if never
before has a member of the bridge Roth
family been for sale
runaway Royals put to work this is a
billion-dollar brat but who is
they only cashing in the Thunder look
after daddy that's next on 60 minutes we
heard it suddenly like forget me take me
out of the picture and forget my name
and suddenly do this ghost thing thing
is very harmful and hurtful to me for
all the problems Prince Harry has with
his family it's not a patch on his
wife's woes I miss Megan I miss the way
she was I don't know who she is now
[Music]
Thomas Markel has now released
never-before-seen pictures of the bond
he shared with his daughter Megan as she
was growing up it couldn't be further
from where their relationship stands now
the bitter war between the two playing
out in the tabloids
I'm going to defend myself I don't care
I mean at this point they owe me
the Royals only Harry owes me megan owes
me I'm 75 years old so it's time to look
after daddy Megan was hoping to escape
constant media coverage by moving to
Canada but scandal and scrutiny seem to
follow her wherever she goes
it actually might not be long until
Megan is back here in London because
she's right now at the center of an
unprecedented court battle the Dutchess
versus her dad as part of legal action
taken by the Sussex is against the
tabloid the defense is likely to call
Thomas Markel as its star witness to
detail that bitter falling-out he's had
with his daughter she then herself might
be forced to take the stand to give her
version of events it's the type of
earring of dirty laundry the Royals
would normally do everything in their
power to avoid but Megan and Harry well
these days they do things very
differently for a daughter and a father
to be fighting each other in a court of
law is most unpleasant I mean it's very
unedifying biographer Angela Levin says
this will be a sad chapter for everyone
involved
I think airing the dirty laundry of
yourself and your family is absolutely
awful in public but she's a very
determined woman image is seemingly
everything - Megan Markham
and it's now more important for her than
ever before because we're the Queen's
money no longer pouring in your
girlfriend doesn't care that you're
borrowing her pants it's time for her
and Harry to cash in on their profiles I
think this is a billion dollar brand
literally a billion American dollars
they're worth if not more
Jonathan Shalit knows a thing or two
about branding he's been a wheeler and
dealer in the world of talent management
in London for decades it's unprecedented
never before has a member of the British
Royal Family been for sale I mean that's
what it actually is
who's the template now for Harry and
Megan I think the templates a
combination of people you know you look
at the Obamas incredible things but I
also think not they would look at the
Kardashians because the Kardashians are
unique and they obviously come for
danger from place but they show the
power of the bran Royals offering
themselves up for promotional gigs isn't
unprecedented it's the more call you
send the embark another of the Queen's
grandson's the lesser-known Peter
Phillips has been flogging milk in China
parading in a palace for a few pounds
syndrome this is what I drink
not many people would recognise princess
and son but there's something that's a
bit more uncomfortable about Prince
Harry sixth in line to the throne
groveling to the boss of Disney to give
Megan a job
sure there's an element of cringe factor
though in particularly the Queen would
be watching on and thinking why are
members of my family selling themselves
off to the highest bidder I'm sure the
senior members of royal family are
looking at this and wishing they haven't
happened but it has happened and that's
what happens with children whether your
family or all or not children often
don't their parents don't want and often
parents go I wish my child hadn't done
that so where does it all go from here
well perhaps it's best we ask Germaine
Greer again given her accuracy before
the wedding she may be stronger than we
think I'm worried that she isn't and
that's one reason why Harry has moved in
this precipitant way he's just got her
out of there
you know he's removed her from the Lions
Den you predicted Megan impulse you
predicted she'd take Harry with her look
into your crystal ball what do you see
now if they escaped from the
jurisdiction of the firm and they do
things on their own initiative the
outcome is likely to be disastrous
[Music]
hello I'm Tara brown thanks for watching
to keep up with the latest from 60
minutes Australia make sure you
subscribe to our Channel you can also
download the 9 now app for full episodes
and other exclusive 60 minutes content